Obtaining a Shell
To obtain a shell, we first
must package the plugin
in a way that WordPress can handle.
WordPress expects plugins
to be in a zip file,
which will be extracted into the
plugins directory on the server.
WordPress places the
contents of the zip file
into a folder that matches
the name of the zip file itself.
Because of this, we will need to
make note of the name of the file
in order to be able to access
our PHP shell later on.
The generated zip file
is named plugin-shell.zip
and will be extracted
to a plugin-shell folder
within the plugins
directory on the server.
Now that the plugin package is generated,
it’s time to upload the shell.
We’ll select Upload Plugin
then find and open our
newly-created zip file.
Finally, to install the plugin,
we click Install Now.
Installing the plugin will upload
the zip and extract the contents.
Now that the plugin is installed,
we can attempt to use it to run system
commands on the WordPress target.
We can simply use cURL for this.
The file that we are targeting
is named plugin-shell.php.
Remember that we must
also set a cmd parameter
containing the command we are attempting
to execute on the target system.
It worked!
Based on the output, we are running
commands as the www-data user.
Now it’s time to upload a meterpreter payload
to obtain a full reverse shell.
First let’s generate a meterpreter
payload with msfvenom.
We are selecting the Linux reverse
TCP meterpreter payload
since we know that the
target is running on Ubuntu
from our previous enumeration efforts.
The LHOST option will
point to our Kali IP address
and we are selecting an LPORT of 443
in an attempt to evade
any outbound firewall rules.
We’ll generate the payload as an elf file
and redirect the output
to a file named shell.elf.
With the meterpreter
reverse shell generated,
we’ll start a web server to allow
the target to download the shell.
With the shell generated
and the web server running,
we will instruct the target
to download the shell.
We will use wget from the target to
download the shell from our Kali system.
However, we must encode
any space characters with “%20”
since we cannot use spaces in URLs.
If the command worked, we should
see an entry in our webserver’s log.
Good. Our shell was successfully downloaded.
Next we need to start a Metasploit payload handler,
make the shell executable,
and run the elf file on the target to acquire a meterpreter shell.
In our msfconsole command,
we pass the same payload settings
we used when generating the shell.
With our listener waiting, let’s make
the shell executable and run it.
We will make the shell
executable with chmod +x.
Once again,
we need to urlencode sensitive
characters such as space and “+”.
At this point, the shell should be
executable so it’s finally time to obtain
a reverse shell.
This can be done by
executing our shell.elf file.
Returning to our listener, we should
see that we have captured a shell.
Now that we have a meterpreter session
on the WordPress machine,
we will move on to
post-exploitation enumeration.